[EDU-3193] feat: add activate dnssec (#500)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/secure-journey/activate-dnssec.mdx

---
title: Activate DNSSEC

> description: Make use of DNSSEC compatibility to guarantee the authenticity and integrity of a IP address response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Use DNSSEC compatibility to guarantee the authenticity and integrity of an IP address response.
```

meta_tags: edge, secure, dnssec, dns
namespace: docs_secure_activate_dnssec
menu_namespace: secureMenu
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/secure/activate-dnssec/
---

> Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC) provides an extra layer of security to verify the authenticity and integrity of a IP address response. Azion provides [DNSSEC compatibility](/en/documentation/products/intelligent-dns/dnssec-compatibility/) as long as your top-level domain (TLD) registry supports it and [your zone is configured](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/intelligent-dns-configure-main-settings/) with DNSSEC-related resource records on [Intelligent DNS](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/add-records/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC)** provides an extra layer of security to verify the authenticity and integrity of an IP address response. Azion provides [DNSSEC compatibility](/en/documentation/products/intelligent-dns/dnssec-compatibility/) as long as your top-level domain (TLD) registry supports it and [your zone is configured](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/intelligent-dns-configure-main-settings/) with DNSSEC-related resource records on [Intelligent DNS](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/add-records/).
```

> Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC) provides an extra layer of security to verify the authenticity and integrity of a IP address response. Azion provides [DNSSEC compatibility](/en/documentation/products/intelligent-dns/dnssec-compatibility/) as long as your top-level domain (TLD) registry supports it and [your zone is configured](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/intelligent-dns-configure-main-settings/) with DNSSEC-related resource records on [Intelligent DNS](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/add-records/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC) provide an extra layer of security to verify the authenticity and integrity of an IP address response. Azion provides [DNSSEC compatibility](/en/documentation/products/intelligent-dns/dnssec-compatibility/) as long as your top-level domain (TLD) registry supports it and [your zone is configured](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/intelligent-dns-configure-main-settings/) with DNSSEC-related resource records on [Intelligent DNS](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/add-records/).
```

Reviewer 2: the `extensions` made me suggest that

> 
> ## Activate DNSSEC via API

Reviewer: ```suggestion

---

## Activate DNSSEC via API
```

> ## Activate DNSSEC via API
> 
> DNSSEC activation is available via [Azion API](https://api.azion.com/#f0f730a3-9739-40cf-ad07-0b7bca8abac8):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Activate DNSSEC 

### Via API

DNSSEC activation is available via [Azion API](https://api.azion.com/#f0f730a3-9739-40cf-ad07-0b7bca8abac8):
```

1. Run the following `GET` request in your terminal, replacing [TOKEN VALUE] with your [personal token](/en/documentation/products/guides/personal-tokens/) to retrieve your `<hosted_zone_id>`:

```bash
curl --location 'https://api.azionapi.net/intelligent_dns' \
--header 'Authorization: Token [TOKEN VALUE]' \
--header 'Accept: application/json; version=3'
```

2. You’ll receive a response similar to this:

```json
{
  "count": 1,
  "links": {
    "previous": null,
    "next": null
  },
  "total_pages": 1,
  "results": [
    {
      "domain": "youdomain.com",
      "is_active": true,
      "name": "A hosted zone",
      "id": 1234
    }
  ],
  "schema_version": 3
}
```

3. Copy the `<id>` value of the specific zone in which you want to activate DNSSEC. In this example, it's `1234`.

> 4.  Run the following `PATCH` request in your terminal, replacing [TOKEN VALUE] with your [personal token](/en/documentation/products/guides/personal-tokens/):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Run the following `PATCH` request in your terminal, replacing [TOKEN VALUE] with your [personal token](/en/documentation/products/guides/personal-tokens/):
```

```bash
curl --location --request PATCH 'https://api.azionapi.net/intelligent_dns/hosted_zone_id/dnssec' \
--header 'Accept: application/json; version=3' \
--header 'Authorization: Token [TOKEN VALUE]' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
    "is_enabled": true
}'
```

5. You’ll receive a response similar to this:

```json
{
  "results": {
    "is_enabled": true,
    "status": "waiting"
  },
  "schema_version": 3
}
```

> Now, DNSSEC is active in the Intelligent DNS zone you specified.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, DNSSEC is active in the Intelligent DNS zone you specified.

---

import ContributorList from '~/components/ContributorList.astro'

**Contributors** <ContributorList>Contributor</ContributorList>
```

Reviewer 3: Faltou o check the Azion API também

> Now, DNSSEC is active in the Intelligent DNS zone you specified.

Author: ```suggestion
Now, DNSSEC is active in the Intelligent DNS zone you specified.

:::tip
Check the [Azion API documentation](https://api.azion.com/) and the [OpenAPI specification](https://github.com/aziontech/azionapi-openapi/) to know more about all features available via API.
:::

```
